---
layout: page
title: 2048
description: Programmed the popular game 2048 so that it is playable using the keyboard. Added a score keeper at the bottom of the screen where it keeps track of the max score and the current score.
img: assets/img/project_2048/2048.png
importance: 4
category:
---

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-2 mt-md-0">
        2048 is played on a grid of squares, each of which can either be empty or contain a tile bearing an integer–a power of 2 greater than or equal to 2. Before the first move, the application adds a tile containing either 2 or 4 to a random square on the initially empty board. The choice of 2 or 4 is random, with a 75% chance of choosing 2 and a 25% chance of choosing 4.
        <br>
        The player then chooses a direction via their arrow keys to tilt the board: north, south, east, or west. All tiles slide in that direction until there is no empty space left in the direction of motion (there might not be any to start with). A tile can possibly merge with another tile which earns the player points.
        <br>
        If the tilt did not change the board state, then no new tiles will be randomly generated. Otherwise, a single randomly generated tile will be added to the board on an empty square.
        <br>
        There is a field at the bottom called “Score” that is being updated with each move. The score will not always change every move, but only when two tiles merge. 
        <br>
        Each time two tiles merge to form a larger tile, the player earns the number of points on the new tile. The game ends when the current player has no available moves (no tilt can change the board), or a move forms a square containing 2048. 
        <br>
        <a href="https://cs61bl.org/su21/projects/game2048/#the-game">Source</a>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-2 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/project_2048/example-2048.gif" title="gif of a 2048 game" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
        <div class="caption"> 
            2048 Demo
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
